Income statement shows you if the company is in healthy condition.It shows us the company profit and loss statements. It tells us what is going on in the company
in terms of revenue, and how this revenue gets transformed into profits during a particular period.

The best company is a company which doesn't really need our money. It's financially self-sufficient.
A good company led by a good management will generate cash with low costs.

Gross margin tells us, if a business has a competetive advantage.

Net income represents what remains after all expenses are substracted.

EPS is the main Wall Street figure when it comes to value a business.

Price to Earnings P/E, this metric suggests how much we are paying for a slice of the company earn

The balance sheet shows what a company owns and owes, and how much shareholders have invested in. Assets = Liabilities + Equity

“Companies that have no debt can’t go bankrupt.”

Peter Lynch
“First rules of investing, never lose money”

Warren Buffett

Remember: the true nature of investing regards the money the company pays us, not the price set by Mr. Market

ROE It defines how much profit is generated for each shareholder dollar. Earnings growth can never exceed ROE. Be careful, a high ROE is not a guarantee of growth.

Debt to Equity
D/E = Debt / Equity

It is important to highlight:  the ideal debt to equity proportion depends on the sector and the maturity stage of the company.

A ratio of 2 or higher is considered risky.

“Look, son, at the end of the day it is all about cash-in, and cash-out”.

Nomad Letter 201

Cash Inflow: Revenue from goods and services, loan receipts, cash dividends, interest earned, asset sales, grants, any form of cash received.
Cash Outflow: Payroll, capital expenditures, supplier payments, taxes, commissions, interest paid, costs tied to the operations, rent, debt payments, equity investment, repurchase of common stocks, dividends.

Qualitative earnings convert a great portion into cash flows, frauds usually report strong earnings numbers, but generate little cash, it is a red flag. This happens because the accrual method lends itself to be easily manipulated, unlike the cash accounting (which hidden some traps too).

Net income larger than the Operating Cash Flow is a warning sign, indeed it is defined as a red flag in the Piotroski F-Score (used to quantitatively define the quality of earnings and strength of a company’s financial position

“Expected long-term cash flows, discounted by the cost of capital—not reported earnings—determine stock prices.”

Michael J. Mauboussin, Morgan Stanley


“It’s far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price.”

Warren Buffett